As we begin this course, I'll assume that you already have an AWS account set up.
If you don't pause the video and go sign up for one now. New accounts receive
access to the free tier for one year so you might just want to create a new
account anyways for the purposes of this course.
Now,
one of the first things I like to do on a new account before creating
any resources in AWS is to set up a billing alarm.
This will let you know once you've accrued a certain amount of charges
on your account. It's nice piece of mind in case you spin up some
resources without being aware of the costs. I can say it has saved my
bacon a few times. To do this, first,
log into your AWS account with the root user, this will be the email address
that you first started the account with. In the upper right‑hand corner, click
on the drop down with your name to the left of the region drop‑down, select
the My Billing Dashboard menu option.
This billing dashboard will have all of your information about what
costs you're incurring. On the left‑hand side menu,
select Billing Preferences.
There are three options here, one is labeled Receive Billing Alerts.
This option can only be enabled once and then it cannot be disabled.
That's why I can't really demonstrate selecting it because
I've already enabled it on my account.
Once it's selected,
we'll configure the alert by clicking this Manage Billing Alerts
link at the end of the section description.
This will send you to CloudWatch so you can create a new alarm.
Now select alarms in the left side menu, and then click the Create
Alarm button. We'll first need to select the metric we'll be
creating an alarm for so click Select Metric.
Because we already enabled the billing alerts from the billing dashboard, you
should see an available metric section called Billing. Click Total Estimated
Charge and then select the row with your currency.
This is the only metric we'll select, so click Select Metric.
Now we will configure the amount threshold.
This is a dollar amount where you want the alarm to
trigger and send a notification.
Put whatever currency amount you feel comfortable with here.
It could be 0, it could be $5 like mine, it could be more.
Then click Next.
Now we need to configure the action to happen when the alarm is triggered.
You may not have a notification list already created so select Create new topic.
This will create an SNS topic.
So give the topic a name, something like Billing‑Alarm‑Topic.
Now enter an email address to send the notification to.
If you want to configure SMS instead,
you'll need to manually create that topic in SNS, instead of here.
Once you enter an email, you can click Create topic, then click Next.
Give the alarm a unique name like Billing Alarm,
then hit Next, and if all the details look good in review,
click Create alarm.
Since we created a new SNS topic and subscription, you will need to confirm it.
You can use this prompt to go to SNS and resolve that.
And when that's complete,
your billing alarm is fully configured and ready to let you know if charges sneak up on you.